Good morning, Menlo Church.
It is so good to be with you.
My name is Dravon.
I serve as one of the executive pastors here.
And so I want to warmly welcome everyone joining us in Menlo Park, San Mateo, Mountain View, and Saratoga, as well as everyone joining us online.
It's so good to have you with us.
As we continue in our series, Love is where we're exploring what the topic of love is in the culture versus what the scriptures say about love.
Before we do that and delve into God's word about love, I would love to come before the Lord in prayer.
So would you join me in prayer as we seek what God would have for us today?
Heavenly Father, thank you so much for an opportunity to come before you, to learn more about what true love is, to learn more about your love for us.
Lord, there's are a lot of different things in our personal and individual lives.
There are things that are going on in our families lives.
There are things that are going on in our communities.
There are things that are going on all around the world, Lord, that we need your definition of what love is.
So wherever anyone is in this conversation of love, whether they're someone who's married, whether they're someone who is currently single, or someone who has lost a spouse, or they're navigating it, or they've decided to never marry or be in a relationship.
Lord, I pray that by your grace, you would grant everyone some encouragement in the truth of what you have for us.
We thank you for all of these things, and it's in Jesus' good name, we pray.
Man.
Now, if I asked you to actually define love today, you might offer a deep theological answer, especially since we're here in church.
But if you're like me, you know, when I think about love, in my mind goes to a specific synth beat from a song from 1998.
You know the song by the artist, Haddaway, right?
You guys know who Haddaway is?
You know?
What is love?
Baby, don't hurt me.
Come on, all across every campus is.
Here we go.
When I see what is love across all our campuses, I want you to repeat the next lines.
All right, you ready?
What is love?
Uh-huh.
Don't hurt me.
No more.
You guys got it.
You guys nailed it.
But nobody gets a Grammy, but that's okay.
That's okay.
You know, or you think of the song, How to Way, but it was also made really famous by the movie, The Night at the Roxbury with the head bob.
of Will Ferrell and Chris Catan.
Now, again, remember, we're just saying the second lines of baby don't hurt me.
Baby don't hurt me no more.
Now, just in case you didn't know, this is not a song about love or joy.
It's actually a song about fear.
It's a song about love as the definition, not as sacrifice, but it's actually a plea for survival.
The song defines love as a defensive posture.
Please don't destroy me while I'm having a good time.
Often high-paced, high-pressure places like that even here in the Bay, if we are not careful, we can even internalize this fear.
This fear that can be in any type of relationship, either with family members or with friends and on the topic of dating, which it also applies.
Many in our culture today, when we start dating, it's if we're not careful, it actually can become a unhinged trip to the grocery store.
Now somebody's like, what does that mean?
Now, we all know what that's like.
When you're absolutely starving, you know the feeling.
When you hit that grocery store, you're hungry for everything and everything looks great to eat.
Your filter all of a sudden disappears.
All of a sudden you'll want to eat things like lentils.
God forbid, why?
or great nuts for cereal.
God, why?
That's when you know when you're a difficult place, when you want great nuts versus cinnamon toast crunch.
You see, you don't care about the price or the ingredients, maybe even how long it's been on the shelf, or if you shouldn't be eating all that sugar like your doctor told you to.
You walk in intending to be wise, but you actually walk out with a cart full of junk food or a pint of ice cream so you can eat and watch your favorite show.
And all you had did was pick what was available to you and ready for you right now.
You see, when we are really hungry for the right now or thirsty, you most want what you don't need and most need what you don't want.
It's like this with our relational appetite too.
Like an unintentional trip to the grocery store, when you're starving, you will settle.
Whether you are single, dating, married, struggling, or even grieving a loss, hear me.
You are not a product.
You are not here to be sampled, nor to treat others like a Costco sample to also be browsed, or evaluated to make sure that the use by date, like a can of spam, is okay.
In the kingdom of God, dating is not shopping.
It's discipleship.
God has more for you than trying the latest skew of that person or that person so that they can be all that you think that you want them or need them to be to make your life whole or for you to make someone else's life whole.
Well, how do we not give into that temptation to treat people that way or even allow ourselves to be treated in that way?
The scripture says this in Proverbs 4, 23, above all else guard your heart for everything you do flows from it.
The Hebrew word for heart is left.
Now this doesn't just mean butterflies like the hallmark movies or your romantic feelings.
It refers to the mission control center of your life.
It's the place where you think, decide, choose, and trust.
Now in the modern view, the heart is often referred to or the lev is primarily associated with feelings and romance.
It's seen as the emotional center, the place from which our desires and our passions flow.
And as a result of that, the stability is only mood based and it's constantly changing.
It's depending on circumstances, chemistry, or even emotional highs and lows.
The prevailing cultural advice is to follow your heart, or you think of frozen.
Love is an open door.
Implying that your feelings are the most trustworthy guide.
The scriptures also say that the heart is deceitful and wicked.
Nobody can know it.
which in line with the contrast of the biblical view of the heart, the Lev in Hebrew is much deeper.
It refers to our will, our thoughts, and our choices.
It's not just the seat of emotion, but it's actually the control center of your life.
Biblically, the heart is meant to be a steady foundation from which everything that you do flows from.
That is why scripture does not tell us to follow our heart.
but instead it tells us to guard it, to guard it and set it fully upon God.
We have heard it said, follow your heart or listen to your heart, but the scripture says actually something different.
It says to guard it because what you do not guard will be taken and it will be twisted.
For example, you would not hire a security guard to guard a pile of trash.
What flows through your heart will eventually start to shape your habits.
You would not put a security detail on something that's not a value.
You would only put a security detail on something that is a value.
I have never taken out the trash.
Now my wife would be like, yes.
I've never taken out the trash, pulled out my cell phone, and called the police and asked them to watch a pile of trash.
You see, I would call the police to protect me or my family or my loved ones that I value who are important to me.
We do not guard trash.
We actually guard treasure.
God instructs us that through the writers of the Bible to guard what is of extreme value.
That is your heart.
in all seasons, in every type of relationship, we are to guard our hearts, especially in dating.
Not just when we are dating, but also when we are single, and not just when we're single, also when we are married, and then not also when we are also widows or widowers.
God's wisdom applies to all of us.
You see, a love that is worth waiting for applies to all people
But in the context of this talk today, we're dealing primarily with romantic relationships.
To the single and dating, guard your love, your heart from the beginning, from becoming desperate for attention.
Give your heart away and be focused on what you are becoming and who you are becoming versus what you can get.
And to the married, guard your love.
your heart when you are tempted to rewrite your covenant based on a difficult season of frustration within your marriage.
Or to the grieving, guard your love.
Your heart still belongs to God because your heart is a treasure.
It's not a trash can.
Now, if you've never heard the story of Ruth, this story begins in a time of chaos and in hunger.
A man named
Ilamilik looks at his wife Naomi and their two sons in Bethlehem and sees that they are starving.
So desperate to provide, he goes and he moves them to a land called Moab.
It's a foreign country and it's a land of foreign gods.
But on the grocery run to Moab, it will cost him and it will cost his family more than they ever could have imagined.
Emily dies.
And then the two sons who had married local women named Orpa and Ruth also died.
And in 10 short years, Naomi goes from a full house to an empty one.
She's left in a foreign land with no husband, no sons, no security.
And then when Naomi hears that the famine has ended back home, she decides to return.
But she looks at her daughters-in-law and pleads with them to stay in Moab.
She tells them, go back to your mothers and find rest in new homes.
I have nothing left to give you, no more sons to marry, no hope to offer you.
My life has become bitter.
Now Orpa weeps kisses Naomi and then goes back to her comfort.
But what does Ruth do?
Ruth does something that actually defies logic.
While Naomi tries to push her way for her own good, Ruth refuses to move.
She doesn't just say, all of a sudden, I need to go with you.
No, the text says that she clung to her.
Naomi points to Orpa walking away and says,
Your sister is going away back to her gods.
Go with her.
But Ruth has already made her choice.
She isn't looking for a shortcut.
She's looking to honor God.
You see, Ruth was starving for a new life, just like Orpa.
But while Orpa went back to what was easy and familiar, Ruth decided that she would rather starve in a field with God
The God of Israel then to feast in a palace of the gods of Moab.
She chose character over comfort.
She chose to guard her left, her heart, to commit her life to serving with commitment before she even knew that there was a man named Boaz who was actually waiting for her.
Some of you are like, yes, that's a word, Lord.
You see, here in the story, Ruth begins with heartbreak and hunger.
But in chapter one of Ruth, she becomes a widow in a foreign land.
She has recently lost her husband, her security, and her future.
And she's starving for hope.
But look at how she responds to Naomi about the wreckage of her life in verse 16.
But Ruth replied, don't urge me to leave you or to turn back from you.
Where you go, I will go.
And where you stay, I will stay.
Your people will be my people.
And your God, my God.
You see, this is a statement, not just of sentiment.
It's a declaration of what we call a covenant.
The Hebrew word, it's not explicitly mentioned, but it's communicated from Ruth.
And this concept called has said,
which is a covenantal steadfast love, a loyal love, she says.
My life for yours.
Ruth doesn't run after immediate comfort.
She chooses to serve versus being served.
Ruth works in the margins, cleaning from the scraps of the field.
Eventually, a landowner, a man named Boaz notices her.
Ruth
2, 11 through 12, Boas replied to her, I've been told about what you have done for your mother-in-law.
Since the death of your husband, may the Lord repay you for what you have done.
May you richly be rewarded by the Lord under whose wings you have come to take refuge.
You see, Ruth wasn't in her best clothes.
She didn't have her hair did.
She didn't have her makeup on.
She wasn't even seeking to be noticed.
But please hear me.
This is not a message about me saying, don't try to be presentable before others or those who you might even be interested in a relationship or to think that I'm saying that relationships don't require, don't require any effort because they do.
What I want to encourage you in is that God is always present in the work which he knows what you need regardless of certain circumstances that you may be experiencing.
This is not a message
about trying to be presentable or to what others we think that we are interested in, because look, listen, God does not require any effort.
He does not require you to fix yourself up before you can come to him, before he loves you.
The reality is, is that God is always present in the work.
He knows what you need.
He knows what you are desiring.
because he knows the circumstances that you may be experiencing.
Now, before Boaz saw Ruth in the field, God saw her in a famine.
Boaz didn't fall for a spark.
He didn't say, hey, man, woo, woo, wow.
He recognized her spirit.
He recognized the woman of Hasid, a woman of commitment, of character.
He saw a woman of character and who she was and who she was becoming in the midst of the brokenness in her life.
This shows us a lot of how Jesus shows us His love.
That regardless of how we may not look put together, our lives are falling apart.
That doesn't throw Jesus off from loving us and serving us.
He doesn't look at us and say, man, y'all look raggedy, let me run the opposite way.
That's not the way that God responds.
What would our lives look like if we didn't exist
completely for ourselves, but we were committed to others for the growth of discipleship and others for people becoming the people of God.
See, God wants us to help in the discipleship of seeing God, of people become the people that God wants them to be versus the people that we want to change them to be, the way that we want so that they can serve our needs.
So to my single friends today,
who would like to be in a relationship.
Don't just look for feelings.
Look for covenant character.
Not shadow compatibility.
Like Phil spoke about last week, if the goal is to be together for the rest of your lives, don't just look for vibes.
Don't just try to catch the butterflies.
Don't just let those things catch your attention.
Let the right character
catch your attention.
The character that will strengthen true commitment into my married friends has said this covenantal keeping love is the oxygen that your marriage needs when the feeling of love runs love.
And to my friends who have lost a spouse, I want to encourage you today to look to God to continue to give you the wisdom and build trust
in Him that even if you don't know what's next, that He knows that He is working in you for your behalf.
And to my single friends who have no desire for any relationship, you're like, nope, I'm good, I'm fine by myself.
Submit your heart to God and guard it from actually becoming a life that is lived, focused inwardly on self.
but to be open on how you are to serve others with your life.
Now, in the story of Ruth, we come to something called the Threshing Floor.
Now, this is a place of testing.
In biblical times, grain was tossed in through the air so that the wind would blow and it would separate the heavy grain from the useless shaft.
Now, it was a place of separation.
And Ruth 3 9 through 11, Boas says this,
Who are you?"
He asked.
She said, I am your servant Ruth.
I could just imagine the place.
I'm your servant Ruth.
She said, spread the corner of your garment over me, since you are the guardian Redeemer, which also means kinsman Redeemer of our family.
The Lord bless you, my God, her, he replied.
The kindness, this kindness is greater, which you have showed earlier.
You do not have to, you have not run after the younger men, whether rich or poor.
And now my daughter, don't be afraid.
I will do for you all that you ask.
All the people in the town know that you are a woman of noble character.
See, Ruth is asking Boas to step into his calling as what's called a kinsman redeemer.
They are alone in the dark, culturally, and in this culture, this is a high pressure moment.
But look at Boaz's restraint in Ruth 3, 12 through 13.
Although it is true that I am your kinsman Redeemer of the family, there is another who was more closely related than I.
Stay here for the night and in the morning, if he wants to do his duty as your kinsman Redeemer,
Let him redeem you.
But if he is not willing, as surely as the Lord lives, I will do it.
Lie here until the morning.
Now in these verses, it highlights this concept called a kinsmen redeemer.
In ancient Israel, land was the lifeblood.
A family's future was also connected to this.
So when a man died without an heir,
Just as Naomi's husbands and sons had, the family land would typically be sold to outsiders and the family name would be erased from history.
This is where the word go-el or the kinsmen redeemer steps in holding the unique right and responsibility to redeem or to buy back the land so it actually stayed within the family.
And then to marry the widow of the deceased relative to actually provide an heir.
You see, this wasn't just a romantic gesture.
This was a rescue mission for a family line that was starving on the verge of extinction.
Now, when we ask if Boaz, does he actually have to do this?
The answer, the technical answer is no, he was not forced to do this.
Because while the law of the kinsmen Redeemer actually existed, it was often viewed as a very, very heavy burden.
due to the significant financial cost of buying back land out of his own pocket.
Furthermore, it actually involved an estate dilution because any children of Boaz with Ruth would legally belong to the line of the deceased husband, meaning that the land of Boaz would actually eventually go to Ruth's sons rather than Boaz's own existing heirs.
You see, this is exactly why the closer relative in Ruth 4, 6, refused it.
He refused to do it stating, I cannot redeem it.
I cannot do this for Ruth because I might endanger my own estate.
For some of you today, the thought of commitment like this person has you second-guessing because of what it might cost you.
What is it for you?
Is it your autonomy?
Is it your idealism?
Is it your net worth?
Is it your plan of life?
Is it for your comfort?
Or a relationship that ended really poorly?
See, I'm not saying that a person needs to be married to be valuable and to behold.
What I'm saying is that God invites all of us to check our hearts in all seasons.
for all of the reasons of why we're in relationships or why we choose not to engage in them.
There are blessings in both spaces.
Now in the story of Ruth, when a closer relative looked at Ruth and saw the liability, Boaz didn't see liability to himself, but looked at Ruth and saw worth.
Boaz chooses sacrifice of his own wealth
and comfort to provide a future for someone else.
The significance of the kinsman Redeemer peaks when we realize that Boas is a type or a shadow of who Jesus is.
To be a Redeemer, you had to meet three specific criteria.
Your kinship, you had to be a blood relative.
You had to have the ability, you had to have enough wealth to pay the price and
You had to have the willingness.
You had to choose to do it.
Jesus is our ultimate kinsmen redeemer because he fulfilled all three.
His kinship was established when God became a human to step into existence to reach us.
His ability in Jesus was proven because he was sinless and perfect, possessing all spiritual capital that we lacked.
And his willingness was shown
that he didn't have to die, but yet he chose to on the cross, showing us his has said his covenant keeping loyalty by the power of his blood.
You see, when Boaz stepped up to the city gate, he was telling Ruth, you are not a product to be used.
You are actually a person to be redeemed.
He took on her debt and her past so that she could have his
future.
And that's exactly what Jesus does for us.
He sees us starving.
He sees us in our state and instead of browsing past us, he actually pays the highest cost to bring us home his life.
So in the story, the problem of poverty in a dead name is actually met by silver and land.
resulting in a son named Obed.
In the Gospel, our problem of sin and death is meant by the life and the blood of Jesus, resulting in eternal life and adoption into God's covenant family.
You see, God is motivated by his said.
He is a covenant keeping God.
He has a commitment type of love that matches only himself.
can never be rivaled.
See in John 3 16, it says that for God so loved the world that he gave his son Jesus.
Now in this moment, Boas could have taken advantage of Ruth, but he chooses integrity over impulse.
Now, I know this story happened thousands and thousands of years ago, but we can ask ourselves,
Where are you in life choosing impulse over integrity?
Are you in that grocery store of your life?
Are you seeing that there's famine in the land?
And are you just going through life right now and you have impulses versus your integrity?
Is there a place in your life where you are choosing something that God doesn't have for you because of the pain of your loss or because of what you want?
Or what if we even asked your significant other?
What if I asked for your browsing history?
What if I asked for your purchasing history?
In our relationships as followers of the way of Jesus, we are to treat others, those who we are dating with respect and with honor.
We have to ask ourselves, are we seeking to serve rather than extort?
I know in our culture,
even encourages us and talks about it and says it's okay to engage in even sexual activity while dating so that they can try it out and see if they're compatible.
Well, let me encourage you.
That's a lie.
And let me clear this up.
If a man and a woman save physical intimacy or sex for marriage and they take the necessary steps to develop their mental and emotional relationship
As they grow, you will be sexually compatible.
Sociological research from the University of Chicago, its national health and social studies of human behavior consistently debunks the cultural myth that physical intimacy peaks in casual relationships or early relationships.
As sociologists, Linda Waite highlights the highest level of fulfillment
that is actually found within the safety of marriage and covenant, where 40% of married women and 50% of married men report that their intimacy as extremely satisfying.
Then these numbers far outpace those who are single or cohabitating individuals suggest that intimacy actually deepens and improves over time.
So let me encourage you today.
God will honor those who walk
integrity, in contrary to belief, boundaries, don't block love, it actually proves that love is worth protecting.
When we look at the story of Boaz, he hones in on the legal process, he honors Ruth.
When Boaz stepped up into the city gates, he shows her, I don't take shortcuts.
The story is not just one of romance, it's one where he
steps in.
He stepped up to the city gate telling the truth that you are not a product to be used.
You're a person to be redeemed.
He took on her debt.
He took on her past so that she could have a future.
Now, as we end, I've got some encouragements for you.
So if you are married, if you are single, or if you've lost a significant other, I want to show you
three different things I'd love to encourage you in.
So you'll see on the screen, three different ones.
Now, in the story of Ruth, I want you to understand and remember, it doesn't end with a wedding.
It actually talks about legacy.
So for those of you who are single and never married, our focus must shift from chasing a spark to discerning a person's spirit.
You have to
audit the grocery store habits.
If you are starving for connection, stop browsing the dating apps or mixers when your identity feels low, or you're likely to walk out with a grocery cart of junk food.
You know, the health won't be there for your soul.
So instead, follow Ruth's lead.
She was in the field and she noticed.
She was noticed because she was working.
You see, I want you to remember this, to set a character filter that moves, that moves past.
Do they make you feel good and ask?
Do they have has said or commitment qualities?
I want you to look for evidence of covenant loyalty, looking in how they treat their parents or their friends and their current commitments.
if you're married, but in a cold season, the priority is to fix your eyes on Jesus rather than to fix your spouse.
Now, I know that might be hard, but consider a 30-day remodel fast where you stop trying to change your spouse or your partner.
Instead, spend time with them and pray for them and ask Jesus to not just try to change them, but to remodel your own heart.
And when the feelings are gone, you must lean on the covenant rather than fleeting chemistry.
reminding yourself, don't stay because, I'm not staying because I feel like it, but I'm staying because Jesus stayed for me.
Now real loyalty is small, unglamorous, and it has moments of difficulty, but practice small acts of his head this week.
Serve your spouse with no expectation of them even noticing or returning the favor.
And so for those of you who are divorced and on the hunt, it is vital for you to make sure that you have a healed wellspring of your own
part first.
Close the starvation gap by ensuring that you remember that you belong to God and to pray for that next step in your life.
Use this season as a threshing floor asking God to blow away the shaft of your habits in your mindset that led to past brokenness so that only the grain of your character remains.
And above all,
Remember, for those of you who are widowed, the call to trust the legacy of God, rather than the finality of your loss.
God knows exactly what you need.
God knows exactly who you are, and He is here to love you.
Your loss is not final, but Jesus' love for you is final, and He can do a lot through you.
Trust Him.
guard your heart because he knows what you need.
Will you pray with me?
Heavenly Father, thank you for my friends today.
I pray, Lord God, that everyone in their midst of in the different places and spaces, that you would allow them to see your truth, your word, that your love is worth waiting for, that you alone are good.
We thank you for all of these things.
And it's in Jesus' good name that we pray.
Amen.